Atomicity: 

Multiple operations are treated as a single unit.
The unit can be a success or a failure. There is nothing in between. I.e. either all operations are success or all are failures. No partial number of successes or failures.

For distributed systems, it data is updated, it gets update to all nodes (replicas) or to no nodes.

Consistency (in case of database):  

A transaction only transitions the database from one valid to another valid state while respecting the database invariants.

However, these invariants are application-specific and defined by every application accordingly.

For example, consider an application that has a table A with records that refer to records in table B through a foreign key relationship. The database prevents a transaction from deleting a record from table A, unless any records in table B referenced from this record are already deleted.

Consistency (in case of database) :

 Every successful read request will receive the result of the most recent write request.

If someone asks about consistency in the case of ACID, then reply with the consistency of ACID.
Otherwise, it’s better to always prefer the consistency of distributed systems.


Isolation: 

When multiple operations are done/running at the same time and potentially on the same data, it looks from outside that only one operation is done/running at any time and there is no interference among them.

Isolation prevents a large number of anomalies.

Durability: 

Once a data is updated, it remains updated even after failures.

Durability guarantees that once a transaction is committed, it remains committed even in the case of failure.

In the context of single-node, centralised systems, this usually means that completed transactions and their effects are recorded in non-volatile storage.

In the context of distributed systems, this means that transactions need to be durably stored in multiple nodes. This way, recovery is possible even in the presence of total failures of a node, alongside its storage facilities.

